README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/codeplea/incbeta.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/codeplea/incbeta)

#Incomplete Beta Function

`incbeta.c` contains only one function. It is the regularized incomplete beta
function. It is released under the zlib license.

You'll need a compiler with `lgamma` to compile it. Any C99 complier should
work.


##Example

```C
    /* Call it with a, b, x. */
    double r = incbeta(10, 10, 0.3); /*0.03255*/
```


##How does it work?

This solves the continued fraction using Lentz's algorithm.


##Why would I use this?

Maybe you're trying to do a statistics test, and you don't want to pull in a
huge dependency like the [GNU Scientific
Library](https://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/) just to get one function you need.
Or maybe you don't want to use [Cephes math
library](http://www.netlib.org/cephes/) because it's not very clear how that's
licensed.  Maybe you don't want to steal code from [Numerical
Recipes](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0521880688/aoeu-20) because it is
definitely *not* open-source.

So use this instead. It works, it's very small and easy, and it's released
under the zlib license.

##What can I do with it?

Well, it's used as a building block in a lot of statistics functions.

For example, you can use this to calculate Student's *t* cumulative
distribution function like this:

```C
double student_t_cdf(double t, double v) {
    /*The cumulative distribution function (CDF) for Student's t distribution*/
    double x = (t + sqrt(t * t + v)) / (2.0 * sqrt(t * t + v));
    double prob = incbeta(v/2.0, v/2.0, x);
    return prob;
}
```

Commit message:

linked to article in readme

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/codeplea/incbeta.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/codeplea/incbeta)

#Incomplete Beta Function

`incbeta.c` contains only one function. It is the regularized incomplete beta
function. It is released under the zlib license.

You'll need a compiler with `lgamma` to compile it. Any C99 complier should
work.

[More info here.](https://codeplea.com/incomplete-beta-function-c)


##Example

```C
    /* Call it with a, b, x. */
    double r = incbeta(10, 10, 0.3); /*0.03255*/
```


##How does it work?

This solves the continued fraction using Lentz's algorithm.

I wrote up an article about how it works [here](https://codeplea.com/incomplete-beta-function-c).


##Why would I use this?

Maybe you're trying to do a statistics test, and you don't want to pull in a
huge dependency like the [GNU Scientific
Library](https://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/) just to get one function you need.
Or maybe you don't want to use [Cephes math
library](http://www.netlib.org/cephes/) because it's not very clear how that's
licensed.  Maybe you don't want to steal code from [Numerical
Recipes](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0521880688/aoeu-20) because it is
definitely *not* open-source.

So use this instead. It works, it's very small and easy, and it's released
under the zlib license.

##What can I do with it?

Well, it's used as a building block in a lot of statistics functions.

For example, you can use this to calculate Student's *t* cumulative
distribution function like this:

```C
double student_t_cdf(double t, double v) {
    /*The cumulative distribution function (CDF) for Student's t distribution*/
    double x = (t + sqrt(t * t + v)) / (2.0 * sqrt(t * t + v));
    double prob = incbeta(v/2.0, v/2.0, x);
    return prob;
}
```
